## Severity Categorization

Admin mistakes will be treated as Lows (or Mids in extreme edge cases) as per [C4's rulebook](https://github.com/code-423n4/org/issues/59)
Centralization risks will be treated as Lows (or Mids in extreme edge cases) as per [C4's rulebok](https://github.com/code-423n4/org/issues/54)

User mistakes that require the user to be careless or enter the wrong information into a contract call are LOWs as per [C4's SC verdict](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y2wJVt0d2URv8Pptmo7JqNd0DuPk_qF9EPJAj3iSQiE/edit#heading=h.lot96e9mx5tv)

The Critical/High/Medium standardization below is borrowed by [Immunefi](https://immunefisupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/13333032674961-Severity-Classification-System)

#### **Critical** 

- **Direct theft of any user funds, whether at-rest or in-motion, other than unclaimed yield**: Theft of user funds is a worst case scenario for a project. An example of in-motion funds is a swap. A user is transferring funds to the contract with the full expectation to exchange them for an equivalent value of another asset. If an attacker can manipulate the system in such a way that a user incurs losses during the transfer and the attacker profits, this is considered direct theft of user funds. If users are losing their stake, principal, vault balances, etc, that is theft of user funds.
- **Direct theft of any user NFTs, whether at-rest or in-motion, other than unclaimed royalties**: Theft of user NFTs is a worst case scenario for a project. An example of in-motion NFTs is an NFTs that get exchanged on the market whether it is from a bid or an offer. A user is giving NFT approval to the contract with the full expectation to exchange them with other assets that were set by the user. If an attacker can manipulate the system in such a way that the user gets nothing or less than the price that was set by the user, this is considered direct theft of user NFTs.
- **Permanent freezing of funds**: This includes bricking a contract which holds tokens so that a user is no longer able to withdraw their funds. It may also include burning of funds so that they can no longer be accessed by the owner. This also includes things like self-destructing implementation contracts so that the proxy becomes useless. The impact here is that funds within a system are no longer accessible.
- **Permanent freezing of NFTs**: This includes bricking a contract which holds NFT tokens so that the owner is no longer able to interact with the NFT. It may also include burning of NFT tokens without permission from the owner of the NFT, and self-destructing the implementation contract so that the proxy which holds the NFT becomes useless. The impact here is that the NFTs within the system are no longer accessible.
- **Unauthorized minting of NFTs:** Unauthorized minting can have an impact where a user can mint more NFTs than they should, or they can mint NFTs without supplying any token.
- **Unintended consequences from Maximal-extractable value (MEV) exploration (this impact only exists on Severity Classification System v2.2)**: MEV is a measure of the profit a miner (or validator, sequencer, etc.) can make through their ability to arbitrarily include, exclude, or re-order transactions within the blocks they produce. This can include front running, sandwich attacks, and liquidations. An opportunity for MEV means that somebody not participating in the protocol is making a profit. In some circumstances (such as projects with relayers, metatransactions, liquidations, keepers, etc.) this may be a core part of the protocol, in which case that specific opportunity may be excluded from the scope.
- **Protocol Insolvency**: Some protocols provide yield to some users that is paid by other users (e.g. Compound lenders are owed yield that is provided by borrowers). An error in this calculation could result in the amount owed **_to_** users exceeding the amount owed **_by_** other users. This is insolvency. Alternatively, the protocol could have debts that exceed its assets in other ways. Of course this does not include "bank run" situations where it’s temporarily not possible to withdraw money from the protocol, but the protocol is otherwise adequately collateralized

#### **High**

- **Theft of unclaimed yield**: A yield is any asset distributed as a reward for participation in a system. Any theft of these rewards before they are distributed or claimed is classified as theft of an unclaimed yield.
- **Theft of unclaimed royalties**: Royalties are any asset distributed as a reward for participation in a system. Any theft of these rewards before they are distributed or claimed is classified as theft of unclaimed royalties.
- **Permanent freezing of unclaimed yield:** A yield is any asset distributed as a reward for participation in a system. Whenever an attacker can prevent the yield from being able to move from the contract, for example by making the harvest() function always fail, this would mean the yield is permanently frozen.
- **Permanent freezing of unclaimed royalties**: Royalties are any asset distributed as a reward for participation in a system. Whenever an attacker can prevent the royalties from being claimed by a user permanently, the unclaimed royalties are considered to be frozen.
- **Temporary freezing of funds**: This classification refers to temporary freezing of funds belonging to the protocol or another user, which the attacker does not own. There may be an amount of time or number of blocks which is in an acceptable range of operation for a project and is therefore excluded from consideration under this impact; however, this range of operation should be kept as short as possible because attacker locked funds can significantly impact user experience and cause rippling issues for a protocol. If an attacker needs to submit many costly transactions to achieve this impact, it is instead "Griefing" and is classified as "Medium".
- **Temporary freezing NFTs**: This classification refers to temporary freezing of user NFTs, which the attacker does not own. Whenever an attacker can prevent the NFTs from being accessible by the user by moving them to another address that is still controllable by the protocol, the NFTs will freeze temporarily and the protocol can return them to their original place.

Note that loss of dust amounts is a LOW.

#### **Medium**

- **Smart contract unable to operate due to lack of token funds**: This classification refers to bugs that mark the smart contract as unable to operate or work correctly due to lack of token funds. There may be cases where the smart contract cannot pay out any rewards for staked tokens because the contract doesn't hold any funds or won't accept any reimbursements. Another example would be the LINK token required to pay for certain Chainlink services. If those services are required for proper function of the system and it's possible (or likely) for the funds to be depleted, that would be a vulnerability.
- **Block stuffing**: this classification refers to a situation where an attacker can create many transactions that will go into one block or win flashbots auction to take the whole block, to disallow anyone else from making transactions to smart contracts.
- **Griefing (e.g. no profit motive for an attacker, but damage to the users or the protocol)**: Griefing is when the attacker calls certain functions of the smart contract that would put it in a suboptimal state, thus blocking normal function execution for any user. This would cause the user to lose money for sending the transaction, but when the smart contract is back to normal, the user would be able to call the function once again to complete it. In this instance, the attacker damaged the user by requiring them to send another transaction. The attacker does not profit, but they do damage the users or the protocol.
- **Theft of gas**: Theft of gas occurs when an attacker makes a relayer that executes a call on an attacker-controlled contract consume much more gas than they should **_and_** that gas is used for the benefit of the attacker. Another instance of this occurring would be when relayers are misconfigured and accept high gas limits. In this case, the attacker could use those high gas limits to make the relayers execute unrelated, complex transactions that would use gas up to that limit for their own benefit.

#### **Low**

- **Contract fails to deliver promised returns, but doesn't lose value**: This is when the code doesn't work as intended (i.e. there is some logic error but that logic error doesn't affect the protocol's funds or user funds). Another example would be an external function that is meant to return a value does not return the correct thing, however, this value is not used elsewhere in application logic.


